>> Sarah Drasner: Custom Directives.
We're almost done with this section.
Custom directives are super awesome.
We covered directives in that first one
and we saw how powerful they can be.
We're just attaching a small bit
of markup to that attribute, and
then we're able to have low level
access to that VDOM or DOM element.
And that it allows us to
do all sorts of things,
like set up a relationship in v-model.
Or say v-for say the be v-if,
and do all sorts of calculations.
And Vue's got you covered for
a lot of the kind of typical UI building
things that you might need to do.
But every once in a while,
you'll find that you have a certain type
of application where you need something.
Again and again, that would be
really useful as a directive,
but Vue doesn't offer it because
it's something specific.
So custom directives can be
really powerful for this.
So if we do something like say, v-tack.
I'm gonna create something called v-tack,
then I can create view.directive'tack'.
I am doing this again, and I'm in that
main.js file above the Vue instance.
I am saying bind(el, binding vnode) and
I'm just passing an element and
saying el.style.position fixed, so
that's okay, that's not that great.
We're gonna do more with it in just
a second as I cover directives.
So we went over directives really
quickly in the beginning but
we didn't do a deep dive to what is
actually going on with each one of them.
V-example, this will
instantiate a directive but
doesn't accept any argument,
so this has limited use.
This is what we just saw on the other one,
we were like,
okay we made it position fix.
Cool, but we're not passing any values or
anything,
so there's very little we're
actually doing with it.
Better, as we could, and
this is what we've been using a lot today,
was things like v model = message or
something.
V-example = value.
This will pass a value into the directive,
and
the directive figures out
what to do with that value.
So we have div v-if = stateExample, I
will show up if the stateExample is true.
Then we can say v-example = string,
this will let you use
a string as an expression.
So you can do something like those strong
tags, we saw that earlier with the HTML.
We can also do something have an argument.
So if we have an argument to the
directive, remember we were using things
those class and style bindings,
that's an example of an argument.
We did v-bind: and then style or class and
we could get lower level access and
also pass an argument.
If we have v-example:arg.modifier="value",
this allows us to use a modifier.
The example below allows us to call
preventDefault() on that thing, so
you used this earlier as well.
So, these are all the different ways
you could create a custom directive.
So here we've got,
it's a little bit late on this screen.
But if you go into the slides,
you can see this a little bit better.
There's actually things surrounding this.
So we've got a few different
hooks that are available to
use with custom directives that
are different from our life cycle hooks.
We've got Bind,
that's the insertion into the DOM,
inserted is the element is inserted,
updated is the element is updated.
And in the cases that it's updated,
we have access to the v-node and
the old v-node.
Remember when we were
working with watchers and
we had access to the old value and
the new value?
Very similar concepts.
We also have component updated,
where all the children are updated,
and they have v-node and or
old v-node and we also have unbind.
Most of the time, I use bind, so that will
probably usually get you where you need
to go, but there are specific instances
where you might want these other ones.
So if we look again at this example,
we've got that v-tack, we're making
that position fix, that doesn't do much.
Now let's make it a little bit better.
So v-tack 70,
I've got a value that I'm passing in.
And then I've got this Vue.directive,
we got bind and
we're passing in
the el.style.position is fixed and
then we're saying top
binding value plus px.
And now we can scroll down the page and
stick an element from the top of the page.
Wherever we need to just by saying v-tack,
I'm going to immediately be able to tack
things to the page at a certain
distance from the top.
So maybe we need to pass an argument,
maybe we want to sometimes
make it stick to the left of
the page instead of the top.
So I could say something,
usually we want the top, but
in certain circumstances where we pass
this argument, make it left instead.
So that makes me happier and we can do,
I'll be offset from the left instead of
the top and you can see me scrolling, and
it allow me to scroll and
it's stuck to the page.
We can pass more than one value,
we looked at this earlier again when we
looked at those at events and things like
that when we were trying to bind to touch,
as well as hover and things.
We can say top 40 left 100, and
say something the position is fixed.
The binding that value.top plus px,
and the binding that value.left.
So I'm tacking it from 40 from the top and
100 px from left of the page.
So that's pretty cool.
Now we have a little bit
more functionality in there.
So let's make something that we might use,
that's kind of a normal
thing that we might make.
I use a library called Waypoints pretty
frequently and what Waypoints does is it
allows you to attached a trigger or
hook to some sort of scroll of them.
You can basically say, when it gets to
this point in the page, fire something and
off of that, I might have an animation or
I might have something toggle or
some event occurs as
your kind of scrolling.
And Waypoints is beautiful and
kind of slender, but it's still
a library that has a few kilobytes
worth of JavaScript in it.
With Vue and custom directives, I can
mimic all functionality of that really,
really simply in just a few lines of code.
So this custom directive with the scroll
event, I'm basically saying okay,
add this event listener and listen for
this point of pixels down the page and
then remove that event listener
when I'm done with it.
So I'm just passing in a few
different value in this like what,
ten line of code,
I can get ride of an entire library.
So then I can pass in a method that
attaches to that directive and
has animation logic fire when I get
to that certain point in the page.
So if I have v-scroll and then I'm
attaching to that method handle scroll,
I can have that thing kind of show
up on the page as I'm scrolling, so
if I'm building that out even further.
I'm working on a project
where I'm working with D3 and
hooking a bunch of D3's
functionality into that directive.
It's not open source yet
because I have a lot more work to do.
But this is basically
how it's all working.
So I'm able to all sorts
of D3 events just by
hooking them into that tiny little piece
of directive that I can use and reuse.